05.23.2025
The goal of the ReelMetrics project is to determine if and how early movie reviews effect the financial success of a movie as measured by box office returns. In particular, we aim to test the commonly held belief that early reviews correlate to good word-of-mouth, and that this good word-of-mouth leads to smaller weekly drops in movie grosses leading to a higher so called "multiplier". Time and data permitting, other topics of interest include how online search traffic and audience ratings correlate with box office returns historically.
We have identified on kaggle "Massive Rotten Tomatoes Movies & Reviews" which contains one dataset on movie info and another dataset on the critic information. The movie info dataset has the the following information on ~140k movies: movie id, title, audience score, tomatometer, rating, ratingcontent, release date, streaming release date, runtime, and genre. The critic review dataset has the follwoing information on ~1.4 million reviews: movie id, review id, creation date, critic name, top critic y/n, original critic score, review status (fresh/rotten), publication name, review text, and score sentiment (positive/negative). 
For movie gross over time, we have located the following website https://www.boxofficemojo.com/weekly/?ref_=bo_nb_wly_secondarytab which contains information on a week-to-week basis on individual movie gross time. We intend to scrape the weekly gross for movies on this website to produce a dataset with at least the approximate information: Movie name, week, year, rank, last week rank, gross, gross change %, theatres (#), theatre # change, average theatre gross, total gross, and distributor.
These would be our main three datasets which we would analyze in this project with the goal of connecting timestamped reviews to week-to-week success of the corresponding movies to discern to what extent this "multiplier" holds true and good early word of mouth from critics corresponds to maintained success as measured by a decreased change in movie gross from one week to the next. This datset does have information on audience scores, so we might have the data to push into more questions regarding connections between audience score, critic score, and gross should time permit. We have not located data on online search traffic at this time, but should the current goals move faster than expected, this might yet be another dataset we attempt to find or procure down the road.
One could imagine the "stakeholders" for this project could be the movie distributors and marketers. In this sense, the "stakeholders" for this project are the ones who could benefit from the knwoledge of if and how early critic reviews could help or hurt movie reception. In this way, the key performance indicators of this project could potentially be, roughly speaking:
  -> the strength of the relationship between positive overall critic reviews and prolonged success or negative overall critic reviews and movie fall off
  -> sensitivity of movie success to critic scores (or change in critic scores)
  These are of course initial thoughts and are subject to change and refinement upon more group discussion and as we progress in the project and get a stronger idea for the shape the project will be taking.
